# Sundance-MediaPrep-SQL-Filters Example 1

Note:  Accompanying images contain redactions in order to protect sensitive information.

## Problem

######   The user needs to access all files in the database that are labelled "Past Kill Date" in order to purge obsolete data.  There is no pre-existing filter to sort the database by this criteria, resulting in a return of all 13,543 files ([Image 1](sql_filters1-1.png)).

######   Note:  Files that are "Not Past Kill Date" appear in GREEN, while files that are "Past Kill Date" appear in ORANGE.

## Action
  
######   Navigating to *Inventory -> Filters -> Edit Custom Filters* ([Image 2](sql_filters1-2.png)), we can create a new filter function, which we'll label "PAST KILL DATE".  This function will look at the "Past Kill Date" (determined by the user) of all files within the database, and compare them to today's date ([Image 3](sql_filters1-3.png)).  If the "Past Kill Date" is a date prior to or including today's date, it will display the file.  Files which do not match this filter's criteria will not be displayed.

## Outcome

######   Using our newly created filter function, we can now return a result of only the 2,134 files in the database labelled as "Past Kill Date" ([Image 4](sql_filters1-4.png)).  This allows the user to easily purge outdated/obsolete data without having to navigate the entire database and risk accidental purging of current data.  We can confirm that all visible files are past their kill date due to all files appearing in ORANGE.

## Final Thoughts

######   While this new filter function allows the user to drastically reduce the number of results returned (13,543 down to 2,134 files), there is still a limiation of the application and function.  Because the "Past Kill Date" attribute of a file is manually entered by a user, there is still the possibility of a current file being returned if it has been labelled with an incorrect "Past Kill Date".  The user must take this precaution when purging data, and cross reference their provided "Purge List" (a document generated by the traffic department which lists all files currently in the database that are obsolete and may be safely destroyed).
